---
layout: single_blog_entry
pagetype: blog-entry
title:  Spock
date:   2015-02-27 18:19:13
categories: blog-entry
subhead:
tags: [Leonard Nimoy,science fiction,Spock,Star Trek,TV]
image:  spock
imageAlt: "Photo of Leonard Nimoy as Spock"
promo: "He was the elder statesman of \"Star Trek\" in a way Shatner never could be"
---  

Let's face it, *Star Trek* is an objectively silly show. Kitschy, low budget, often poorly acted and on occasion downright terrible.

But I love it dearly, madly and irrationally.

This irrational fan love is probably one reason Leonard Nimoy had a notoriously difficult relationship with his best-known character.

He famously denounced the role in his memoir *I Am Not Spock* and even asked to be killed off in *Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan.* But not even Spock could stay dead for long.

Nimoy later came to embrace the role in the book *I Am Spock* and finally lived long enough to become the beloved elder statesman of *Trek* in a way that William Shatner couldn't.

My memory of "Star Trek" resides in the fuzzy nostalgia of youth, but not some idealized *Leave It To Beaver* happy times. I was a depressed, unhappy, outcast teen.

Watching "Star Trek" was one of the few things that made me happy. Every day after school at 4 p.m. It's a cliche, I know, for the nerd to get lost in outer space. But it did.

If you were to ask me what the best movie ever made was, I'd say *2001: A Space Odyssey.* That's what I say to show off. If you were to ask me what my *favorite* movie is, I'd say without pause *Star Trek II.* I've watched it probably 100 times or more and never get tired of it.

My irrational love of *Star Trek* is woven into my being.

That's where my thoughts turn to Nimoy. We're often burdened with a role that others want us to play, and that was something that Nimoy bristled against.

But even if he didn't want to be subsumed by his role, it was the one he played most of his life. And he was beloved in ways the few people ever are.

I hope he knew what he really meant for people like me. RIP.
